Logistic Regression Inference Workload {#logistic_regression}
========================

## Operation Description

The operation for this workload is the logistic regression with `sigmoid` activation function. 

### Summary
This operation is defined as:

```cpp
P(X) = op(W, b, X)
```

where

```cpp
op(W, b, X) = sigmoid(X . W + b)
```

### Operation Parameters

Input: `3` parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-|-|
| `0` | `W` is the feature vector for the linear regression with `n` features (number of components in the vector). |
| `1` | `b` is the bias for the linear regression. This is a scalar. |
| `2` | `X` is the input vector to the linear regression. It has `n` components. |

### Result:

Output: `1` output

| Output | Description |
|-|-|
| `0` | `P(X)` is a scalar. It is the result of the logistic regression. |

### Details

Given the feature vector `W` and the bias `b`, for any input vector `X_`

```cpp
P(X = X_) = sigmoid(X_ . W + b)
```

where:
```cpp
x = X_ . W + b
```
is the result of the linear regression. `X_ . W` is the dot product between vectors `X_` and `W`, and

```cpp
double sigmoid(double x)
{
    return 1.0 / (1.0 + exp(-x));
}
```
is the standard sigmoid function.

## Workloads

This document applies to the following workloads:

```cpp
// From hebench/api_bridge/types.h

hebench:APIBridge::Workload::LogisticRegression
hebench:APIBridge::Workload::LogisticRegression_PolyD3
hebench:APIBridge::Workload::LogisticRegression_PolyD5
hebench:APIBridge::Workload::LogisticRegression_PolyD7
```

#### Notes
For `hebench:APIBridge::Workload::LogisticRegression_PolyD3`, `hebench:APIBridge::Workload::LogisticRegression_PolyD5`, and `hebench:APIBridge::Workload::LogisticRegression_PolyD7` the `sigmoid` activation is approximated around `x = 0` using a polynomial. The polynomial approximation used is<sup>[1]</sup>:

Degree 3:
```cpp
sigmoid_d3(x) = 0.5 + 1.20096(x/8) - 0.81562(x/8)^3
```

Degree 5:
```cpp
sigmoid_d5(x) = 0.5 + 1.53048(x/8) - 2.3533056(x/8)^3 + 1.3511295(x/8)^5
```

Degree 7:
```cpp
sigmoid_d7(x) = 0.5 + 1.73496(x/8) - 4.19407(x/8)^3 + 5.43402(x/8)^5 - 2.50739(x/8)^7
```

### Workload Parameters

Required workload parameters: `1`

| Index | Name | Type | Description |
|-|-|-|-|
| `0` | `n` | `uint64_t` | Number of features in feature vector `W`. This is the number of components for vectors `W` and `X`. |

Above parameters are required for the workload in the specified order. A backend must specify, at least, a set of default arguments for these parameters.

Backends can require extra parameters beyond the base requirements. If a backend requires extra parameters, these must have default values in every set of default arguments for the workload parameters.

## Categories
This workload supports the following categories:

```cpp
hebench:APIBridge::Category::Latency
hebench:APIBridge::Category::Offline
```

### Category Parameters
#### Latency
See `hebench::APIBridge::CategoryParams::latency`.

#### Offline

See `hebench::APIBridge::CategoryParams::offline`.

Value ranges for elements in `CategoryParams::offline::data_count`. Default value is used for elements that take any sample size, but sample size of `0` is specified by Test Harness.

| Parameter | Lower bound | Upper bound | Default |
|-|-|-|-|
| `0`* | `1` | `1` | `1` | 
| `1`* | `1` | `1` | `1` | 
| `2` | `1` | none | `100` |

&nbsp;* When set to `0`, these are set to the specified default values. Not affected by Test Harness sample size option.

## Data Type

This workload is defined for the following data types:

```cpp
hebench::APIBridge::DataType::Float32
hebench::APIBridge::DataType::Float64
```

## Data Layout

### 1. Vectors
All scalar elements in a vector with elements of type `T` (where `T` is any of the supported types) lie contiguous in memory.

For example, given the following vector `A` with `n = 3` components:

```cpp
A = [ a0, a1, a2 ]
```

The elements will be stored in memory as:

| Offset: | 0 | 1 | 2 |
|-|-|-|-|
|A| `a0`  | `a1`  | `a2`  |

Backends should expect this layout for their raw, clear text inputs, and must generate this layout for their decoded outputs.

#### Notes
If several vectors will be pointed at by a single pointer, consecutive vectors will follow each other in memory.

### 2. Scalars
All scalars will be represented as vectors with a single element.

## Dataset
All data for vectors and scalars used as input for this workload is generated by Test Harness during workload initialization. There is no standard dataset.

Vector elements are extracted from a pseudo-random normal distribution of mean `0` and standard deviation of `1`: `n(0, 1)`.

## References
[1] -  M. Kim, et al. "Secure Logistic Regression  Based on Homomorphic Encryption: Design and Evaluation" Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/074, 2018.